.\" Manpage for cpulse
.\" Contact qfennessy@gmail.com for errors or typos.
.\" Updated: 2026-01-13
.TH CPULSE 1 "January 2026" "0.9.0" "Commit Pulse Manual"
.SH NAME
cpulse \- personal daily briefings from Claude Code sessions and GitHub activity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpulse
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cpulse
(Commit Pulse) analyzes your development activity over the past week and generates concise, actionable briefings delivered to your email each morning.
.PP
It integrates with Claude Code session logs and GitHub to surface patterns, open questions, code review needs, and actionable next steps.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Create a default configuration file at ~/.cpulse/config.yaml
.TP
.B generate \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Generate and optionally send a daily briefing. See GENERATE OPTIONS below.
.TP
.B preview \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Preview what signals would be collected without generating cards. Options: --hours.
.TP
.B history
Show briefing history and statistics.
.TP
.B config
Display current configuration settings.
.TP
.B patterns \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Show development patterns from recent Claude Code sessions. Options: --hours.
.TP
.B questions \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Show open questions extracted from recent sessions. Options: --hours.
.TP
.B feedback \fIcard-index\fR \fIrating\fR
Submit feedback for a card in the latest briefing. Rating: helpful, not_helpful, snoozed.
.TP
.B feedback-stats
Show aggregated feedback statistics.
.TP
.B priority \fItopic\fR \fIlevel\fR
Set priority for a topic. Level: high, normal, low, ignored.
.TP
.B priorities
Show current topic priorities.
.TP
.B memory \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Show memory context status and loaded project memories. Options: --project <path>.
.TP
.B serve \fR[\fIoptions\fR]
Start the web dashboard. Options: -p/--port, -H/--host.
.SH GENERATE OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-hours \fIn\fR
Hours of history to analyze. Default: 168 (7 days).
.TP
.B \-\-preview
Print briefing to stdout with ANSI formatting instead of sending email.
.TP
.B \-\-all\-cards
Generate all card types regardless of weekly rotation schedule.
.TP
.B \-\-simple
Use simple formatting without narrative transitions.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-send
Generate but do not send email.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-save
Generate but do not save to briefing history.
.SH CARD TYPES
.TP
.B project_continuity
What you worked on, files modified, open todos, suggested next steps.
.TP
.B code_review
Recent commits, open PRs, review requests, stale branches.
.TP
.B open_questions
Unresolved questions from Claude Code sessions.
.TP
.B patterns
Development patterns and habits from your sessions.
.TP
.B post_merge_feedback
Comments added to PRs after they were merged.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in ~/.cpulse/config.yaml. Key sections:
.TP
.B email
SMTP settings for sending briefings (to, from, smtp host/port/auth).
.TP
.B sources.claude_code
Enable/disable Claude Code integration and set log path.
.TP
.B sources.github
Enable/disable GitHub integration, specify repos, include private repos.
.TP
.B preferences
Article style, max cards per briefing.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
Anthropic API key for Claude. Can also be set in config.yaml.
.TP
.B GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN
GitHub personal access token. Can also be set in config.yaml.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.cpulse/config.yaml
Main configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.cpulse/data/
Briefing history, feedback, and cached data.
.TP
.I ~/.cpulse/memory.md
Global memory context for briefing generation.
.TP
.I <project>/docs/memory.md
Project-specific memory context (preferred location).
.TP
.I <project>/memory.md
Project-specific memory context (fallback location).
.SH INSTALLATION
From the cpulse source directory:
.PP
.RS
.B npm run link
.RE
.PP
This builds the project, creates a global symlink via npm link, and installs this man page to /usr/local/share/man/man1/.
.PP
To uninstall:
.PP
.RS
.B npm run unlink
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Initialize configuration:
.RS
.B cpulse init
.RE
.PP
Generate and preview a briefing in terminal:
.RS
.B cpulse generate --preview
.RE
.PP
Generate all cards for testing:
.RS
.B cpulse generate --all-cards --preview
.RE
.PP
Send briefing via email:
.RS
.B cpulse generate
.RE
.PP
Show development patterns:
.RS
.B cpulse patterns
.RE
.PP
Start web dashboard on port 8080:
.RS
.B cpulse serve -p 8080
.RE
.SH CRON
To receive daily briefings at 6 AM:
.PP
.RS
0 6 * * * cpulse generate >> ~/.cpulse/cron.log 2>&1
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Quentin Fennessy with Claude Code.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/qfennessy/cpulse/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License. See LICENSE file for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR node (1),
.BR crontab (5)
